# mkblog.sh

mkblog.sh is a simple blogging system, written in sh. It allows you to write
blog posts in Markdown and compile them into a nice HTML site with a single
command.

## Usage

First, create a skeleton for your new blog using `mkblog.sh init <directory>`.
This will start a setup wizard to allow you to configure your blog. To change
an answer given to the wizard, just change the relevant export in the variables
subdirectory. You can also add custom variables to use in your template.

To add more pages to the blog, use `mkblog.sh new_page <directory>`. This will
prompt you for a title for the page you want to add. If a page by this title
exists, you will have the option to overwrite it.

To add blog posts, use `mkblog.sh new_post <directory>`. This will prompt you
for a title for your new post. If you already have a post by this title at the
same exact time (unlikely unless it's a mistake), you will have the option to
overwrite it.

When you invoke either `mkblog.sh new_page` or `mkblog.sh new_post`, the new
post or page will be opened in your editor. This is determined as follows:

* If you have the `VISUAL` environment variable set, the script will use
  whatever it refers to as your editor.
* If you don't have `VISUAL` set, but have `EDITOR` set instead, the script will
  use that.
* Otherwise, the script will use `vi`.

If you want to add page source files manually, add Markdown files to the `pages`
subdirectory. The title of the resulting page will be the same as the file,
minus the extension. If you want to add blog post source files manually, add
Markdown files to the `posts` subdirectory; make sure you follow the
`yyyy-mm-dd-time-title.md` naming convention. For example:
`2016-02-04-17:00-Hello, world!.md`. It is fine to leave out the time, as long
as the amount of dashes match up. Feel free to name your file
`2016-02-04--Untimed article.md` if you do not want to add a time.

Then, run `mkblog.sh build <directory>` to build your blog. The HTML will be
placed in a subdirectory named `build` in the directory you are building.

To edit what your blog looks like, just edit `templates/header.html` and
`templates/footer.html` according to your wishes. However, try to not remove
the skip div element, as it aids accessibility.

## Example directory structure

If you are doing everything right, your blog directory should look like this.

    .
    ├── pages
    │   ├── About.md
    │   └── Contact.md
    ├── posts
    │   ├── 2016-02-06-17:00-Hello again.md
    │   └── 2016-02-04--Hello, world!.md
    ├── templates
    │   ├── footer.html
    │   └── header.html
    └── variables

## Dependencies

Aside from standard tooling, mkblog.sh has two dependencies:

* `envsubst`, which is part of GNU Gettext.
* A Markdown parser that parses standard input and sends the HTML to standard
  output.

By default, mkblog.sh assumes that the parser program is named "markdown". You
can change this by editing the `var_mdproc` variable in the `variables` file. We
recommend `discount` as a parser program (which conveniently does the right
thing by default).

## License

mkblog.sh is licensed under the GNU AGPLv3+, with the exception of the files
generated by the init command, which are licensed under CC0.
